# Handling-English-VPE-for-English-Hindi-MT
English-Hindi machine translation systems have difficulty interpreting verb phrase ellipsis (VPE) in English, and commit errors in translating sentences with VPE. We present a solution and theoretical backing for the treatment of English VPE, with the specific scope of enabling English-Hindi MT, based on an understanding of the syntactical phenomenon of verb-stranding verb phrase ellipsis in Hindi (VVPE). We implement a rule-based system to perform the following sub-tasks: 1) Verb ellipsis identification in the English source sentence, 2) Elided verb phrase head identification 3) Identification of verb segment which needs to be induced at the site of ellipsis 4) Modify input sentence; i.e. resolving VPE and inducing the required verb segment. This system obtains 94.83 percent precision and 83.04 percent recall on subtask (1), tested on 3900 sentences from the BNC corpus [Leech, 1992]. This is competitive with state-of-the-art results. We measure accuracy of subtasks (2) and (3) together, and obtain a 91 percent accuracy on 200 sentences taken from the WSJ cor- pus[Paul and Baker, 1992]. We carried out a manual analysis of the MT outputs of 100 sentences after passing it through our system. We set up a basic metric (1-5) for this evaluation, where 5 indicates drastic improvement, and obtained an average of 3.55.
The British National Corpus, version 3 (BNC XML Edition). 2007. Distributed by Bodleian Libraries, University of Oxford, on behalf of the BNC Consortium. URL: http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/

